RestSetAcls/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

> [!WARNING]
> These instructions are only meant for contributors to this project.
> If you want to use the script, refer to the README.

## Installing development dependencies

```powershell
.\init.ps1
```

## Testing

### Run unit tests

```powershell
Test
```

### Test formatting

```powershell
Test-Format
```

### Test module manifest

```powershell
Test-Manifest
```

### Test all the above

```powershell
Test-All
```

## Format files

```powershell
Format
```

## Lint

```powershell
Lint
```

## Publishing the module locally

This is a useful test before publishing to the PSGallery.

```powershell
Import-Module .\publish-tools.psm1

Publish-Local

Install-Module RestSetAcls -Repository LocalRepo
Uninstall-Module RestSetAcls

Unpublish-Local
```

## Publishing the module to the PSGallery

1. Bump the version in `RestSetAcls.psd1`.
1. Get your API key from the [PowerShell Gallery](https://www.powershellgallery.com/account/apikeys).
1. Run the following command:

    ```powershell
    Import-Module .\publish-tools.psm1

    Publish-PSGallery -apiKey "<api-key>"
    ```

## Setting up an E2E test run

1. Create a new Azure Storage account with a file share. Take note of the storage account key.
1. Define the following in your PowerShell session:

    ```powershell
    $AccountName = "<storage-account-name>" # replace with the storage account name
    $AccountKey = "<storage-account-key>" # replace with the storage account key
    $FileShareName = "<file-share-name>" # replace with the name of your file share

    $context = New-AzStorageContext -StorageAccountName $AccountName -StorageAccountKey $AccountKey
    ```

1. Mount the file share to a local drive

    ```powershell
    net use X: \\${AccountName}.file.core.windows.net\${FileShareName} /u:${AccountName} $AccountKey
    ```

1. Create test files

    ```powershell
    .\RestSetAcls\test\TestSetup.ps1 -Context $context -FileShareName $FileShareName -NumberDirs 3 -NumberFilesPerDir 3 -Depth 1
    ```

    This will create a directory structure with 3 directories, each containing 3 files:

    ```plaintext
    Creating dir /dir-1
    Creating file /dir-1/file-1.txt
    Creating file /dir-1/file-2.txt
    Creating file /dir-1/file-3.txt
    Creating dir /dir-2
    Creating file /dir-2/file-1.txt
    Creating file /dir-2/file-2.txt
    Creating file /dir-2/file-3.txt
    Creating dir /dir-3
    Creating file /dir-3/file-1.txt
    Creating file /dir-3/file-2.txt
    Creating file /dir-3/file-3.txt
    ```

    In general, if $f$ is `NumberFilesPerDir`, $d$ is `NumberDirs` and $\Delta$ is `Depth`, this script will generate:
    
    $$\text{\\# of files} = f \cdot d^\Delta$$
    $$\text{\\# of folders} = \sum_{i=1}^{\Delta} {d^i} = \frac{d(d^\Delta - 1)}{d-1}$$

## Comparing the speed to icacls

1. Try to set permissions via icacls

    ```cmd
    icacls X:\ /t /grant "Everyone:(OI)(CI)F"
    ```

1. Compare the speed of this operation to the `Set-AzureFilesAclRecursive` function

    ```powershell
    Set-AzureFilesAclRecursive -Context $context -FileShareName $FileShareName -FilePath "/" -SddlPermission $sddl
    ```

Commit message:

Add recommendation to configure format-on-save

RestSetAcls/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

> [!WARNING]
> These instructions are only meant for contributors to this project.
> If you want to use the script, refer to the README.

## Editor configuration

### VS Code

This module has PR validations that enforce formatting rules, so it's recommended to configure VS Code to format on save, to ensure that your changes are always formatted correctly.

## Installing development dependencies

```powershell
.\init.ps1
```

## Testing

### Run unit tests

```powershell
Test
```

### Test formatting

```powershell
Test-Format
```

### Test module manifest

```powershell
Test-Manifest
```

### Test all the above

```powershell
Test-All
```

## Format files

```powershell
Format
```

## Lint

```powershell
Lint
```

## Publishing the module locally

This is a useful test before publishing to the PSGallery.

```powershell
Import-Module .\publish-tools.psm1

Publish-Local

Install-Module RestSetAcls -Repository LocalRepo
Uninstall-Module RestSetAcls

Unpublish-Local
```

## Publishing the module to the PSGallery

1. Bump the version in `RestSetAcls.psd1`.
1. Get your API key from the [PowerShell Gallery](https://www.powershellgallery.com/account/apikeys).
1. Run the following command:

    ```powershell
    Import-Module .\publish-tools.psm1

    Publish-PSGallery -apiKey "<api-key>"
    ```

## Setting up an E2E test run

1. Create a new Azure Storage account with a file share. Take note of the storage account key.
1. Define the following in your PowerShell session:

    ```powershell
    $AccountName = "<storage-account-name>" # replace with the storage account name
    $AccountKey = "<storage-account-key>" # replace with the storage account key
    $FileShareName = "<file-share-name>" # replace with the name of your file share

    $context = New-AzStorageContext -StorageAccountName $AccountName -StorageAccountKey $AccountKey
    ```

1. Mount the file share to a local drive

    ```powershell
    net use X: \\${AccountName}.file.core.windows.net\${FileShareName} /u:${AccountName} $AccountKey
    ```

1. Create test files

    ```powershell
    .\RestSetAcls\test\TestSetup.ps1 -Context $context -FileShareName $FileShareName -NumberDirs 3 -NumberFilesPerDir 3 -Depth 1
    ```

    This will create a directory structure with 3 directories, each containing 3 files:

    ```plaintext
    Creating dir /dir-1
    Creating file /dir-1/file-1.txt
    Creating file /dir-1/file-2.txt
    Creating file /dir-1/file-3.txt
    Creating dir /dir-2
    Creating file /dir-2/file-1.txt
    Creating file /dir-2/file-2.txt
    Creating file /dir-2/file-3.txt
    Creating dir /dir-3
    Creating file /dir-3/file-1.txt
    Creating file /dir-3/file-2.txt
    Creating file /dir-3/file-3.txt
    ```

    In general, if $f$ is `NumberFilesPerDir`, $d$ is `NumberDirs` and $\Delta$ is `Depth`, this script will generate:
    
    $$\text{\\# of files} = f \cdot d^\Delta$$
    $$\text{\\# of folders} = \sum_{i=1}^{\Delta} {d^i} = \frac{d(d^\Delta - 1)}{d-1}$$

## Comparing the speed to icacls

1. Try to set permissions via icacls

    ```cmd
    icacls X:\ /t /grant "Everyone:(OI)(CI)F"
    ```

1. Compare the speed of this operation to the `Set-AzureFilesAclRecursive` function

    ```powershell
    Set-AzureFilesAclRecursive -Context $context -FileShareName $FileShareName -FilePath "/" -SddlPermission $sddl
    ```
